I know that some people
coming into nursery,
especially with the Vue 3 release,
don't always have a view background.
So we're gonna do is we're gonna start
a little bit from the top as far
as explaining kind of how things were
things, the state of the ecosystem.
And so to start, where we're gonna do is
we're gonna start with options API because
it's what most people are familiar
with when they think of Vue, and
then we'll kind of basically
progress from there.
So to start, what I'm going to do is
I'm gonna build a very simple to-do
list viewer with the Options API.
And the reason I'm gonna emphasize viewer
is don't worry we're not gonna sit here
and build out to do MVC all over again.
This is a very high level
exercise that we're going to do.
So instead of my app.Vue component,
I'm gonna go ahead and add a script block.
And then all we do for
our options API is we typically
export a default object, right?
But what I'm gonna tell you here
is in the nuts component or
when you're building the necessary app,
I actually highly recommend that
you by default go ahead and import
define Nuxts component from the library.
And the reason for this is because when
you wrap your object around with define
Nuxt component, it basically
provides you better auto-completion.
It provides you better typing.
And then going forward,
it's just not this generic object that's
floating around like your
code like IntelliSense and
that kind of stuff will be much
better at predicting things.
So just that little bit is very helpful,
so
that's one thing I would recommend
if you're using options API.
Next, let's go ahead and
actually build this out, right?
So for the data, I'm gonna use
the arrow syntax function here.
And so for
those who might not have seen this before,
this is the equivalent of writing this.
But as you see, it's one line shorter
because of the arrow function, and so
it kind of condenses it.
So for that reason, I tend to prefer
the arrow function in this regard.
And then, I'll just basically say
TodoList, it'll be an empty array.
And so next what we're gonna do is we're
gonna actually find a way to fetch
the actual data, right?
And so if you haven't used this before,
there's a great tool
called JSON Placeholder.
And it's basically a free
rest API that just,
it's kind of it's fake in
the regards that like,
you can't really update the database,
and so it'll mock a bunch of responses.
But at the bare minimum it gives you the
ability to fetch a bunch of data just as
you would a real network request and
then actually play around with that data.
So what we're gonna do is we're
going to grab this URL right here.
So this is the Todos API.
And then so for this method,
I'm going to call it fetch TodoLlist.
And then it'll be basically,
we will use the browser fetch
keyword to fetch from this URL.
And then once we get that,
we'll get a response from our API.
And then, we'll make sure we
JSONnify that response and
then after that we'll take that JSON, and
we will assign it to a to-do list,
so actually let me use rocket here.
This.todoLists =JSON.
Okay, so to just cover kind
of what we just did here,
we wrote a function such to do lists.
We're using the native browser API for
fetch in order to perform an Ajax request.
And then, the key thing here that might be
a little bit different if you're new to
options API is that this keyword is used
a lot in options API because it can refer.
It basically knows what you're referring
to, and is really good at guessing.
So in this case, it knows that this is
referring to the data property TodoLists,
because in other frameworks, you might
have to be like this.data.TodoLists.
With the options API, one of the reason
I think people took to it so well,
I thought that this was very
intelligent and predicting it.
So to show that this actually works all
we're gonna do is, I'm going to add a pre
block here, and then I'm gonna
basically render out TodoLists.
And so this is a neat little trick with
the pre because, actually I'll show
you the difference, I think when before
and after will make a big difference.
So let me also add a button here, and
this button is going to
actually set to the TodoList.
So we're actually going to call
the method that we wrote up here.
So we'll call it fetch data,
and we'll just save it.
Okay, let's see how this works.
So when I click it,
you'll see my gosh, look at this.
This is just it's a lot to read.
So what most of us do?
Most of us will probably then try to
console log it.
So we got some sort of
indenting formatting.
But if you switch it from the p tag to
the pre tag, which basically stands for
pre-formatted, and that's a native
HTML thing, not a new thing.
You'll see way prettier.
I can parse this.
I don't know.
I don't need to console log, this works.
I can look at this and go, I got a rough
idea of what I got here, and this is good.
We have a user,
you have a user ID, we have an ID,
you have a title we have
whether it's completed or not.
All right, easy enough.
What we can do is let's just go ahead and
loop through that, right?
So we'll just let's do a ul,
li v4 for every to-do in TodoLists.
And you might notice that a lot
of times when I have arrays,
I don't do the thing where
most people would do this.
They do Todo and TodoList and that's
because in programming we have off-by-one
errors a lot and one letter as a plural
is an easy off by one error to have.
And so for me, I think it's just easier
just to be explicit just to say TodoList,
and it makes it very clear visually.
So we know that the key here is gonna
utilize the ID that we saw in the to-do
item, but
we also know that it's a simple ID because
we just saw it's a bunch of numbers.
So in this kind of situation, I like to
just go ahead and use string interpolation
to just basically be like, maybe like
todo Id and then just be like todo Id.
And that way in the future
when we have other things,
you're less likely to
just get that conflict.
And then from there, let's just do
let's do a simple input check box.
And then whether it is
checked will V bind it,
which basically means we're going to make
the property dynamic, and we're done,
bind it to whether the fact that
the todo item is completed or not.
And then finally, we'll just do that
todo that title, just like that.
And so now if we go back here,
and then let me refresh.
To fetch the data, wait,
go back, then I save.
I know why.
Nothing's wrong.
It's just that this list is very,
very long because they
still have the pre block.
So rather than make you
all watch me scroll,
I think we got a sense of what that is.
Now I can delete that.
Much better.
All right, so we can see now, great.
We have a list of items, checkboxes,
again, we're not implementing todo MVC,
this is just a TodoList viewer.
That's all we just want to see it.
And so okay, the other thing
that we might wanna do too,
when you're building a site is that well,
you might wanna add an image.
And so let's go ahead and
grab an image, shall we?
So one of the resources I like to use for
images when sort of building site
projects and stuff is Unsplash
because they're royalty free, but
then they just encourage you to basically
just attribute the photographer.
So if I just do like to do for example
alright let's see I think yeah this one
looks good I like this one, so
I'm gonna go ahead and download this one.
And so you can see here one thing that
lets you do is you can give credit to
the photographer, so we're gonna do that,
I'm gonna copy that.
And then so what we're gonna do here,
let me open this inside of my desktop,
there it is.
And then let me open up
the project here that I have.
So what I'm gonna do here is I'm gonna
use the Reveal in Finder shortcut and
that way it'll be make it easier
to drag and drop this thing.
And so inside of our directory, so
in this case you want to host an image
basically is what you want to do.
And so, I know most people in the past
would be like, this is an asset, so
I'll throw it in an assets' folder.
But at least for now, try to think of it.
It's really just a static asset for now.
We don't need the build tool to run
through anything at the moment.
So given that, we'll take the simpler
route and just have a public directory.
So this is the public, basically,
it'll be served as is directly to
the URL which will show you it shortly.
And so for those coming from Nuxt 2, this
is the equivalent of the static folder,
that's what they used to call it.
But I think public really is
the standard for across the framework,
so I'm glad that they made that switch.
So I'm just gonna call
this on todo.jpg and
just to keep the naming simple,
and drop that in, okay?
So now that we have it, we see that inside
of public, we have our image right here.
So let's go and drop this at the time.
It's sort of like a hero, shall we?
And so because it's in a public directory,
really all we have to do
is just go / todo.jpg.
And in fact, actually, let me just
show you how easy this part is.
So because here, let me shrink this.
Once it's actually served in the public
directory, you can actually go directly to
the path here, todo.jpg, and you see it'll
load your asset just as you would expect.
If you did this with an assets' folder,
though,
then there's like compilation
it gets a little bit tricky.
Sometimes, it hashes things,
you can predict where it is.
And so for things that you
know that just gonna be fixed,
like maybe like collet Fave
icons are a great example.
Like you're not gonna be dynamically
changing that you can upload it once and
then people can refer to it.
Public is a great way to just
get that up and running and
because it's as easy as just
basically referencing it as a URL,
this means that we can very easily then
refer to it inside of our component.
So just source, what is the source?
/todo.jpg, and then we're gonna give
credit to the author right here.
So let me actually wrap this in a p tag,
and
then I'll just give an alt have to
do photo by Glenn Karstens Peters.
All right, so just like that,
we'll see here that look.
It's huge.
I know why It's because I downloaded,
I think I downloaded like
the giant one like 4,000 pixels.
Yeah, I see 4,000 pixels.
Yeah, let's make that an easy 600,
shall we?
We don't need to be that high resolution.
So, now when we refresh, much better.
All right, so we got this little
header image, we got that.
Then we have the ability to fetch data
we see it on pretty simple component,
this is great.